README.md, before:

# Azure Communication Services .NET SDK

Azure Communication Services enable developers to add communication capabilities to their applications.

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
- The latest version [.NET Core client library](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core) for your operating system.
- An active Communication Services resource and connection string. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp).

## Quickstarts

1. [Send SMS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/telephony-sms/send?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

2. [Manage Phone Numbers](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/telephony-sms/get-phone-number?pivot=programming-language-csharp)

3. [Create and manage Communication Services resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-net)

4. [Create and manage access tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/access-tokens?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

5. [Add Chat to your App](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/chat/get-started?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

6. [Use managed identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/managed-identity?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

7. [Send Email](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/email/send-email?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

Commit message:

Manage Teams identity quickstart (#41)
* added quickstart for cte

* updated global readme

* fixed PR comments

* fixed the sdk version

README.md, after:

# Azure Communication Services .NET SDK

Azure Communication Services enable developers to add communication capabilities to their applications.

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
- The latest version [.NET Core client library](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core) for your operating system.
- An active Communication Services resource and connection string. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp).

## Quickstarts

1. [Send SMS](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/telephony-sms/send?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

2. [Manage Phone Numbers](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/telephony-sms/get-phone-number?pivot=programming-language-csharp)

3. [Create and manage Communication Services resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-net)

4. [Create and manage access tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/access-tokens?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

5. [Set up and manage access tokens for Teams users](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/manage-teams-identity?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

6. [Add Chat to your App](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/chat/get-started?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

7. [Use managed identities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/managed-identity?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

8. [Send Email](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/email/send-email?pivots=programming-language-csharp)
