EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/README.md, before:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- csharp
products:
- azure
- azure-communication-services
---

# Obtain Azure Communication Services access token for Microsoft Entra ID user

This code sample walks you through the process of obtaining an Azure Communication Token for a Microsoft Entra ID user.

This sample application utilizes the [Azure.Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet) package for authentication against Microsoft Entra ID and acquisition of a token with delegated permissions. The [Azure.Communication.Common](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/overview/azure/communication.common-readme?view=azure-dotnet) package provides the functionality required to obtain Azure Communication Services access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID users.

## Prerequisites
- Install [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)
- The latest version .NET Core SDK for your operating system.
- An active Communication Services resource and endpoint URI. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource/).
- A Microsoft Entra ID instance.  For more information, see [Microsoft Entra ID overview](https://learn.microsoft.com//entra/fundamentals/whatis).
- [Azure Identify SDK for .Net](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) to authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID.
- [Azure Communication Services Common SDK for .Net](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Communication.Common/) to obtain Azure Communication Services access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID user.

## Code Structure

- **./EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/Program.cs:** Core application code with operations to obtain Azure Communication Services access token for Microsoft Entra ID user.
- **./EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart.csproj:** Project configuration file.

## Before running sample code

1. Complete the `Administrator actions` from the [Quickstart: Set up and obtain access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID users](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/entra-id-authentication-integration).
1. On the Authentication pane of your Entra ID App, add a new platform of the mobile and desktop application type with the Redirect URI of `http://localhost`.
1. Open an instance of PowerShell, Windows Terminal, Command Prompt or equivalent and navigate to the directory that you'd like to clone the sample to.
1. `git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/Communication-Services-dotnet-quickstarts.git`
1. With the Communication Services procured in pre-requisites, add resource endpoint URI, an Entra ID client ID and tenant ID to environment variable using below commands:

```console
setx COMMUNICATION_SERVICES_RESOURCE_ENDPOINT <Azure Communication Services resource endpoint URI>
setx ENTRA_CLIENT_ID <application (client) ID of the Entra ID App>
setx ENTRA_TENANT_ID <tenant ID of the Entra ID>
```

## Run Locally

1. Open `EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart.csproj`
2. Run the `EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart` project

You will be prompted with a browser window to sign in with your Entra ID credentials. After successful authentication, the application will obtain an Azure Communication Services access token.

Commit message:

added sample app for assignment rest apis

EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/README.md, after:

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- csharp
products:
- azure
- azure-communication-services
---

# Obtain Azure Communication Services access token for Microsoft Entra ID user

This code sample walks you through the process of obtaining an Azure Communication Token for a Microsoft Entra ID user.

This sample application utilizes the [Azure.Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/identity-readme?view=azure-dotnet) package for authentication against Microsoft Entra ID and acquisition of a token with delegated permissions. The [Azure.Communication.Common](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/overview/azure/communication.common-readme?view=azure-dotnet) package provides the functionality required to obtain Azure Communication Services access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID users.

## Prerequisites
- Install [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)
- The latest version .NET Core SDK for your operating system.
- An active Communication Services resource and endpoint URI. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource/).
- A Microsoft Entra ID instance.  For more information, see [Microsoft Entra ID overview](https://learn.microsoft.com//entra/fundamentals/whatis).
- [Azure Identify SDK for .Net](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Identity) to authenticate with Microsoft Entra ID.
- [Azure Communication Services Common SDK for .Net](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Communication.Common/) to obtain Azure Communication Services access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID user.

## Code Structure

- **./EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/Program.cs:** Core application code with operations to obtain Azure Communication Services access token for Microsoft Entra ID user.
- **./EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart/EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart.csproj:** Project configuration file.

## Before running sample code

1. Complete the `Administrator actions` from the [Quickstart: Set up and obtain access tokens for Microsoft Entra ID users](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/entra-id-authentication-integration). You can use the `ManageEntraUserAccess` class to programmatically control which Entra ID users or groups have access to your Azure Communication Services resource. The class includes sample implementations for listing current assignments, creating or updating user access, and deleting assignments as needed.
1. On the Authentication pane of your Entra ID App, add a new platform of the mobile and desktop application type with the Redirect URI of `http://localhost`.
1. Open an instance of PowerShell, Windows Terminal, Command Prompt or equivalent and navigate to the directory that you'd like to clone the sample to.
1. `git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/Communication-Services-dotnet-quickstarts.git`
1. With the Communication Services procured in pre-requisites, add resource endpoint URI, an Entra ID client ID and tenant ID to environment variable using below commands:

```console
setx COMMUNICATION_SERVICES_RESOURCE_ENDPOINT <Azure Communication Services resource endpoint URI>
setx ENTRA_CLIENT_ID <application (client) ID of the Entra ID App>
setx ENTRA_TENANT_ID <tenant ID of the Entra ID>
```

## Run Locally

1. Open `EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart.csproj`
2. Run the `EntraIdUsersSupportQuickstart` project

You will be prompted with a browser window to sign in with your Entra ID credentials. After successful authentication, the application will obtain an Azure Communication Services access token.
